## This file consists of the results to Research question : "Certificate analysis and comparison" with the following sub-questions:

<a href="">a) Compare the methods of generating the certificates with different type of ingress controllers</a>

<a href="">b) Determining the ways to distribute the generated certificate and providing them to the ingress controller</a>

<a href="">c) Can wildcard certficiates be beneficial during operations?</a>

<a href="">d) How does the complexity of using self-signed certificates compare to the automatic generation of certficiates in ingress controllers?</a>
  
<a href="">e) When can self-signed certificates be used without losing security?</a>
  
<a href="">f) How is the rotation of expiring certificates realized in ingress in kubernetes?</a>


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### a) Compare the methods of generating the certificates with different type of ingress controllers


* Certificates in kubernetes is achieved with the help of an API to request certificates named as <code>certificates.k8s.io/v1beta1</code>

* Clients create a certificate signing request (CSR) and send it to the API server.

* The user who is requesting the certificate is stored as part of the CSR resource.

* This CSR remains in a pending state unless and until a cluster CA approves it.

 - Attention is to be paid that we do not want any random signed certificate here and that these certificates will be signed by the cluster Certificate Authority making sure that every single component in the cluster trusts this CA which further implies that they are going to trust any certificate generated through this API. Thus the CSR has to be approved for the certificate to be issued.

* Once this CSR request is approved, the certificate is issued.

As we know, we can expose the workloads over TLS using ingress i.e. ingress has the ability to expose services that use TLS. The method to do this is:

* First by defining a <code>Secret</code> which includes a certificate and a private key and then we have to reference that secret in our ingress resource as done in this demonstration:





#### b) Determining the ways to distribute the generated certificate and providing them to the ingress controller

#### c) Can wildcard certficiates be beneficial during operations?

#### d) How does the complexity of using self-signed certificates compare to the automatic generation of certficiates in ingress controllers?

#### e) When can self-signed certificates be used without losing security?

#### f) How is the rotation of expiring certificates realized in ingress in kubernetes?

