## This file consists of the results to Research question : "Basic properties of underlying implementations" with the following sub-questions:

<a href="https://github.com/dikshita-git/RP_Ingress_security-IPv4_and_IPv6/blob/main/K3s/Chapters/Results/5.1_Basic_properties_of_underlying_implementations.md#nginx-based-ingress-controller-vs-haproxy-based-ingress-controller-vs-traefik">a) What are the principal point of differences between Traefik, HaProxy and Nginx?</a>

<a href="">b) Which scenarios fit best for the aforementioned alternatives and what are their operational differences?</a>

***************************************************************************************************************************





Though Kubernetes undoubtedly serves as a very reliable platform to our applications running inside the cluster because of its capability to run the applications in a group or cluster of machines, by restarting them ensuring its availability in case some pods fails. On top of that, it also has the built-in feature to connect different services of the application  together using ***build-in service discovery and load-balancing*** and it also supports stateful applications. But for the final goal of delivering the applications to the users, we need an ***L7 Loadbalancer*** or ***Ingress Controller*** in other terms. <a href="https://github.com/dikshita-git/RP_Ingress_security-IPv4_and_IPv6/wiki/Ingress#introduction-to-ingress"><code>Here</code></a> is a more detailed introduction abut ingress with an example.

One of the most important necessities of ingress controllers is that it supports both <a href="https://github.com/dikshita-git/RP_Ingress_security-IPv4_and_IPv6/blob/main/K3s/Chapters/Results/5.1_Basic_properties_of_underlying_implementations.md#path-based-routing">Path-based</a> and <a href="https://github.com/dikshita-git/RP_Ingress_security-IPv4_and_IPv6/blob/main/K3s/Chapters/Results/5.1_Basic_properties_of_underlying_implementations.md#host-based-routing">Host-based loadbalancing </a> and SSL termination. In this project, mostly host-based loadbalancing is used. Moreover, the L7 laodbalancing supports only HTTP and HTTPS rules for directing the trafiic and hence they listen on port numbers 80 and 443 respectively.

#### Path-based routing:

* No host is specified here. Thus, the rule is applicable to all the inbound HTTP(S) traffic through the ingress controller.
* <code>PathType</code> field is required and specifies one of the three possible ways of interpretation of ingress object path mainly: ***"Exact"*** , ***"Prefix"***.
  
  <code>Exact</code> - matches the URL path exactly and with case sensitivity.
  
  <code>Prefix</code> - here the matches are based on a URL path prefix split by /. Moreover, the matches are case-sensitive too liek in Exact type and is done on path element-by-element basis. 
  
Refer to the link <a href="https://github.com/dikshita-git/RP_Ingress_security-IPv4_and_IPv6/wiki/Ingress#path-based-routing"><code>here</code></a> to read more about Path-based routing in ingress in kubernetes.


#### Host-based routing:

* Here instead of having a path, we have a proper domain name.
* Thus if a request comes from a particular DNS name like <a href="https://dkrp2.xyz/">dkrp2.xyz</a>, the traffic gets further forwarded to ***backend services***


💡<b>NOTE:</b> 🔦
> Ingress has a strong precedence over NodePort or Loadbalancer in a way that it can integrate and amalgamate thee routing rules in a single resource to expose the multiple services available for the particular application.
> Ingress defines the routing rules for traffic which includes protocols like HTTPS/HTTPS, loadbalancing, path-based routing, SSL termination etc.  whereas Ingress controller is the component which holds the responsibility to implement all the ingress rules normally with a loadbalancer with an aim to handle the traffic .



## Nginx-based Ingress controller Vs HaProxy-based ingress controller Vs Traefik

Ingress in kubernetes can be implemented by using different ingress controllers like Nginx, Haproxy, Traefik, Istio, Envoy etc. Each ingress should specify a ***class*** which can be defined as a reference to an <code>IngressClass</code> resource which contains additional configurations including the name of the controller that should implement the class. 

💡<b>NOTE:</b> 🔦

> 🔴Without ingress class, the ingress controller will not evaulate the ingress rules.

Here is an example(see under annotations of the ingress.yaml):<a href="https://github.com/dikshita-git/RP_Ingress_security-IPv4_and_IPv6/blob/main/K3s/Demo/Certificate_with_k3s%2Bnginx/Ingress.yaml"><code>Click here</code></a> 

The section below includes a comparison table showing the focal point of differences between the mostly used opensource ingress controllers. 

|                      |Nginx-based Ingress controller      |    HaProxy-based ingress controller       | Traefik      |
|     :---:    |            :---:                    |     :---:                                 |  :---:        |
| Supported Protocols | <ul><li>http/https</li><li>http2</li><li>grpc</li><li>tcp/udp</li></ul>   | <ul><li>http/https</li><li>http2</li><li>grpc</li><li>tcp</li><li>tcp+tls</li></ul>     | <ul><li>http/https</li><li>http2</li><li>grpc</li><li> tcp</li><li>tcp+tls</li></ul>    |
| git diff     | git diff       | git diff      |
